Breadcrumb
Innovation & AI
Models & research
Google DeepMind
Project Genie: Experimenting with infinite, interactive worlds
Jan 29, 2026
·
4 min read
Read AI-generated summary
General summary
Google is rolling out Project Genie to Google AI Ultra subscribers in the U.S. Project Genie is a research prototype that lets you create, explore and remix interactive worlds. You can use text prompts and images to build environments and navigate them in real time.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Bullet points
"Project Genie" lets Google AI Ultra users create, explore, and remix interactive worlds.
Genie 3 powers the prototype, generating real-time paths as you move and interact.
Users can sketch worlds with text/images, explore them, and remix existing creations.
The prototype has limitations, like world realism and character control, but is improving.
Google aims to expand access to Project Genie and its world-building tech in time.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Explore other styles:
General summary
Bullet points
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Google AI Ultra subscribers in the U.S. can try out Project Genie, an experimental research prototype that lets you create and explore worlds.
D
Diego Rivas
Product Manager, Google DeepMind
E
Elliott Breece
Product Manager, Google Labs
S
Suz Chambers
Director, Google Creative Lab
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
00:00
Your browser does not support the audio element.
Listen to article
This content is generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental
5:12 minutes
0:00
5:12
Voice
Umbriel
Speed
1X
Voice
Umbriel
Gacrux
Speed
0.75X
1X
1.5X
2X
In August, we
previewed Genie 3
, a general-purpose world model capable of generating diverse, interactive environments. Even in this early form, trusted testers were able to create an impressive range of fascinating worlds and experiences, and uncovered entirely new ways to use it. The next step is to broaden access through a dedicated, interactive prototype focused on immersive world creation.
Starting today, we're rolling out access to
Project Genie
for Google AI Ultra subscribers in the U.S (18+). This experimental research prototype lets users create, explore and remix their own interactive worlds.
How we’re advancing world models
A world model simulates the dynamics of an environment, predicting how they evolve and how actions affect them. While Google DeepMind has a history of agents for specific environments like
Chess
or
Go
, building AGI requires systems that navigate the diversity of the real world.
To meet this challenge and support our AGI mission, we developed Genie 3. Unlike explorable experiences in static 3D snapshots, Genie 3 generates the path ahead in real time as you move and interact with the world. It simulates physics and interactions for dynamic worlds, while its breakthrough consistency enables the simulation of any real-world scenario — from robotics and modelling animation and fiction, to exploring locations and historical settings.
Building on our model research with trusted testers from across industries and domains, we are taking the next step with an experimental research prototype: Project Genie.
How Project Genie works
Project Genie is a prototype web app powered by Genie 3,
Nano Banana Pro
and
Gemini
, which allows users to experiment with the immersive experiences of our world model firsthand. The experience is centred on three core capabilities:
00:00
1. World sketching
Prompt with text and generated or uploaded images to create a living, expanding environment. Create your character, your world, and define how you want to explore it — from walking to riding, flying to driving, and anything beyond.
For more precise control, we have integrated “World Sketching” with Nano Banana Pro. This allows you to preview what your world will look like and modify your image to fine tune your world prior to jumping in. You can also define your perspective for the character — such as first-person or third-person — giving you control over how you experience the scene before you enter.
Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos, but don't worry, you can
download it
and watch it with your favorite video player!
2. World exploration
Your world is a navigable environment that’s waiting to be explored. As you move, Project Genie generates the path ahead in real time based on the actions you take. You can also adjust the camera as you traverse through the world.
3. World remixing
Remix existing worlds into new interpretations, by building on top of their prompts. You can also explore curated worlds in the gallery or in the <randomizer icon> for inspiration, or build on top of them. And once you’re done, you can download videos of your worlds and your explorations.
00:00
How we’re building responsibly
Project Genie is an experimental research prototype in Google Labs, powered by Genie 3. As with all our work towards general AI systems, our mission is to build AI responsibly to benefit humanity. Since Genie 3 is an early research model, there are a few known areas for improvement:
Generated worlds might not look completely true-to-life or always adhere closely to prompts or images, or real-world physics
Characters can sometimes be less controllable, or experience higher latency in control
Limitations in generations to 60 seconds
A few of the Genie 3 model capabilities we announced in August, such as promptable events that change the world as you explore it, are not yet included in this prototype. You can find more details on model limitations and future updates on how we’re improving the experience,
here
.
Building on the work we have been doing with trusted testers, we are excited to share this prototype with users of our most advanced AI to better understand how people will use world models in many areas of both AI research and generative media.
Access to Project Genie begins rolling out today to
Google AI Ultra subscribers
in the U.S. (18+), expanding to more territories in due course. We look forward to seeing the infinitely diverse worlds they create, and in time, our goal is to make these experiences and technology accessible to more users.
POSTED IN:
Google DeepMind
AI
Google One
Related stories
Chrome
The new era of browsing: Putting Gemini to work in Chrome
By
Parisa Tabriz
Developer tools
New developer tools for Google AI Pro and Ultra subscribers
By
Niv Govindaraju
&
Bala Muthukrishnan
Jan 27, 2026
Google One
Google AI Plus is now available everywhere our AI plans are available, including the U.S.
By
Vikas Kansal
Jan 27, 2026
Search
Just ask anything: a seamless new Search experience
By
Robby Stein
Jan 27, 2026
AI
In our latest podcast, hear how the “Smokejumpers” team brings Gemini to billions of people.
Jan 27, 2026
Google DeepMind
How animators and AI researchers made ‘Dear Upstairs Neighbors’
By
Cassidy Curtis
&
Sarah Rumbley
Jan 26, 2026
.
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Jump to position 4
Jump to position 5
Jump to position 6