Breadcrumb
Innovation & AI
Technology
Research
4 highlights from Google Beam in 2025
Dec 11, 2025
·
4 min read
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Here's a look at Google Beam's progress over the last year.
A
Aaron Luber
Director Business Development, Google Beam
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
In 2021, we introduced
Project Starline
with the ambitious goal of making remote communication feel like you’d instantly traveled across distances to be together. This year, our vision became reality with the announcement of
Google Beam
— our first true-to-life 3D video-communication platform, powered by Google AI. Here’s a look at how Beam progressed this year:
1. Google Beam took center stage at I/O.
At I/O in May, CEO Sundar Pichai unveiled the evolution of Project Starline into a new AI-powered video communication platform,
Google Beam
. He showed how Google is bringing its AI technology to Google Beam through breakthrough AI-powered video models that transform 2D video streams to 3D experiences, and how we’re paving the way for future features like real-time
speech translation
.
Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos, but don't worry, you can
download it
and watch it with your favorite video player!
2. Beam began working with industry leaders in video.
At InfoComm 2025, we announced
HP Dimension with Google Beam
, the first product specifically for businesses developed in partnership with our partner, HP. Our technology earned a "
Best of Show
" win at InfoComm, recognized for its broad impact and remote conversation experience that’s far closer to being in the same room. HP Dimension with Google Beam was later named an Honoree in
Fast Company's Next Big Things in Tech Awards 2025
.
Google Beam was also showcased at Zoomtopia, Zoom's annual user conference, highlighting a partnership to integrate the Google Beam platform with their video conferencing software. To further expand Beam's reach, we collaborated with HP to establish a network of distribution partners like Diversified, AVI-SPL and more.
Zoom CEO, Eric Yuan
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Google Beam represents a transformative breakthrough in video communication. Our partnership with Google Beam is about delivering that deeply immersive, true-to-life presence directly into the Zoom experience, empowering users to connect and collaborate more deeply than ever.
X
Xuedong Huang
Chief Technology Officer, Zoom
In October, we co-hosted with industry experts at a
WORKTECH
event where founder and CEO of UnWork and WORKTECH Philip Ross called Beam “an AI game-changer that connects people and not just pixels, changing the way we enable presence and collaboration.”
3. Workplaces all over the world became early users — including Google.
Organizations globally began using Beam's true-to-life capabilities firsthand in their offices. Workplaces like Schwarz Digits and Huntington Bank were among them.
At Schwarz we envision Google Beam enhancing our work by deepening international collaboration, significantly reducing the need for executive travel, and enabling more efficient communication with our worldwide vendor partners. It is redefining connection in ways we’ve never experienced.
C
Christian Müller
Co-CEO Schwarz Digits
The list is growing, too: Bain, Duolingo, Salesforce, Citadel, NEC, Hackensack Meridian Health and more are actively embracing Beam.
At Huntington, we want customers to leave every interaction feeling valued and cared for, whether we’re talking with them remotely or in person. Google Beam enhances customer connection and trust, two key drivers of relationship-building in financial services. Pioneering this technology is a new and compelling way to power our high-touch model for financial advice and guidance, regardless of location.
V
Vijay Konduru
Chief Marketing Officer, Huntington
Here at Google, Googlers testing Beam said they prefer it over typical video conferencing and 90% agreed that using Beam makes it feel like they're in the same space as their meeting partner. Through testing, we’ve identified five key use cases where Beam truly shines: job interviews and recruiting; mentoring and talent development; productivity and collaboration; critical conversations and connecting distributed teams.
4. We announced a pilot program with the USO.
We began work to place Beam devices in select USO centers worldwide, enabling deployed active duty service members to connect with their families.
Related Article
Google Beam is working with the USO
Learn more about Google’s work with the USO and how it plans to launch a program that will enable service members to stay in touch with loved ones.
See more
Learn more about Google Beam and connect with our sales team at
beam.google
.
POSTED IN:
Google Research
AI Products
Related stories
AI Products
The latest AI news we announced in December
By
Keyword Team
Dec 29, 2025
AI Products
Google's year in review: 8 areas with research breakthroughs in 2025
By
Jeff Dean
&
Demis Hassabis
&
James Manyika
Dec 23, 2025
AI Products
60 of our biggest AI announcements in 2025
By
Zahra Thompson
Dec 22, 2025
AI Products
40 of our most helpful AI tips from 2025
By
Molly McHugh-Johnson
Dec 19, 2025
Google Cloud
5 ways AI agents will transform the way we work in 2026
By
Anil Jain
Dec 19, 2025
AI Products
You can now verify Google AI-generated videos in the Gemini app.
Dec 18, 2025
.
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Jump to position 4
Jump to position 5
Jump to position 6