Breadcrumb
Company News
Outreach & Initiatives
Creating opportunity
Honoring the art of the possible this International Women’s Day
Mar 08, 2026
·
2 min read
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Christina Basilio
Keyword Contributor
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
00:00
This month, we’re celebrating the women whose curiosity, creativity and leadership have shaped our world. International Women’s Day and Women’s History Month serve as a time to honor those who paved the way and those who continue to build a more innovative future.
Honoring a pioneer in “The Art of Possible”
“The Art of Possible” is a new documentary that explores the incredible journey of Dr. Marian Rogers Croak. A trailblazer for women and Black people in STEM, Dr. Croak’s work has been foundational to the technology people around the world use every day, from her pioneering patents in Voice over IP (VoIP) to her current role leading Google’s work in Human Centered AI and Machine Learning. The film uses Google's AI tools — Veo3 and Nano Banana, accessed through the product
Flow
— to help visualize parts of her story where historical footage doesn't exist, while preserving her legacy in a new way. Her story is a powerful reminder that “the way things are does not have to be the way things will be.”
Celebrating the achievements of women all month long
Dr. Croak is just one of the pioneers we’re celebrating this month, here are other ways you can find inspiring stories:
Explore the Women in Culture collection:
Google Arts & Culture's “
Women in Culture
” collection offers a chance to explore the contributions of women artists, scientists and visionaries throughout history.
Discover inspiring work on Google Play and YouTube
: All month long, Google Play will feature games,
apps and books
celebrating IWD, including titles developed by women creators and female-led teams. On YouTube, you can find authentic stories and editorial features from inspiring women in the creator community.
Look for a special International Women’s Day Doodle:
Keep an eye on the Google homepage for a
special Doodle
that celebrates the day and the achievements of pioneering women in STEM fields — and be sure to click the artwork to launch AI Mode in Search where you can learn even more about women-led discoveries and inventions.
Express yourself with more representative emoji or Google Meet backgrounds:
You can
change your emoji’s gender presentation
with a single tap in Chrome and Gboard for Android, helping you show up more authentically. And we’ve launched a Women’s History Month inspired background in Google Meet.
Explore collections on Google TV:
Discover movies and shows that celebrate the incredible contributions of women across entertainment with weekly collections themed around trailblazers, women in comedy and musicians.
We’re proud to elevate the voices and work of women across our products this month and all year long.
POSTED IN:
Creating opportunity
Google Research
Related stories
Sustainability
How our open-source AI model SpeciesNet is helping to promote wildlife conservation
By
Tanya Birch
&
Dan Morris
Mar 06, 2026
AI
The latest AI news we announced in February
By
Keyword Team
Grow with Google
Practical AI skills for everyone
By
Lisa Gevelber
Feb 19, 2026
Creating opportunity
Take the reins this Year of the Horse.
By
Christina Basilio
Feb 17, 2026
Safety & Security
The quantum era is coming. Are we ready to secure it?
By
Kent Walker
&
Hartmut Neven
Feb 06, 2026
Accessibility
Natively Adaptive Interfaces: A new framework for AI accessibility
By
Sam Sepah
Feb 05, 2026
.
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Jump to position 4
Jump to position 5
Jump to position 6