Breadcrumb
Innovation & AI
Technology
Research
Groundsource: using AI to help communities better predict natural disasters
Mar 12, 2026
·
3 min read
Read AI-generated summary
General summary
Google is introducing Groundsource a new AI system to help predict urban flash floods. Groundsource uses public reports and Google Maps to create a historical dataset of flood events. This dataset trains a new model to forecast floods up to 24 hours in advance and is available in Google's Flood Hub.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Basic explainer
Google made a new AI tool called Groundsource. It looks at old reports to learn about past floods. This helps the AI predict future floods in cities up to a day before they happen. Now, people can use Google's Flood Hub to see these warnings and stay safe.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Explore other styles:
General summary
Basic explainer
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Introducing Groundsource, a new Gemini-powered methodology, transforming millions of public reports into a high-quality data archive to aid crisis prediction — starting with urban flash floods.
Yossi Matias
Vice President & Head of Google Research
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Your browser does not support the audio element.
Listen to article
This content is generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental
3:04 minutes
0:00
3:04
Voice
Umbriel
Speed
1X
Voice
Umbriel
Gacrux
Speed
0.75X
1X
1.5X
2X
When disaster strikes, information is a lifeline. For years, as part of Google’s
Crisis Resilience efforts,
we’ve provided early warnings about natural hazards to help communities stay safe. However, high-fidelity data for certain disasters like flash floods simply did not exist. This data gap has long prevented our ability to train AI models to predict flash floods before they happen — until now.
Today, we’re introducing Groundsource, a new AI-powered methodology that transforms public information into a high-quality record of historical disaster data — starting with flash floods in urban areas. Groundsource used Gemini to analyze decades of public reports and identified over 2.6 million historical flood events spanning more than 150 countries. It then used Google Maps to determine precise geographic boundaries for each event to create a dataset focused on flash floods. Using this dataset we trained a new model that makes tangible progress towards predicting flash floods in urban areas up to 24 hours in advance.
The urban flash floods forecasts are available in Google’s
Flood Hub
— along with our existing
riverine flood forecasts
which cover 2 billion people in more than 150 countries for the most significant riverine floods — marking a significant expansion to our flood forecasting capabilities. For communities around the world, this means better preparedness before a disaster strikes. For our partners and scientists, Groundsource provides a massive, open-source benchmark to scale their impact — particularly in urban regions that have lacked historical flash flooding data.
Today, the Urban Flash Floods model and dataset join our
Google Earth AI
family of geospatial models and datasets. Importantly, the same AI-driven approach of Groundsource has the potential to be applied to other natural disasters, like landslides or heat waves, turning verified reports from around the world into datasets that enable improved global resilience. By turning public information into actionable data, we aren't just analyzing the past — we’re building a more resilient future for everyone towards our goal that no one is surprised by a natural disaster.
Learn more about our research to close the data gap with
Groundsource
and expand our flood forecasting to
urban flash floods
to help keep communities safe.
Get more stories from Google in your inbox.
Get more
stories from Google
in your inbox.
Email address
Your information will be used in accordance with
Google's privacy policy.
Subscribe
Done. Just one step more.
Check your inbox to confirm your subscription.
You are already subscribed to our newsletter.
You can also subscribe with a
different email address
.
POSTED IN:
Google Research
Sustainability
Related stories
Creating opportunity
Honoring the art of the possible this International Women’s Day
By
Christina Basilio
Mar 08, 2026
Sustainability
How our open-source AI model SpeciesNet is helping to promote wildlife conservation
By
Tanya Birch
&
Dan Morris
Mar 06, 2026
AI
The latest AI news we announced in February
By
Keyword Team
Sustainability
We’re pledging $50 million through 2030 to take action on superpollutants.
By
Randy Spock
Mar 05, 2026
Safety & Security
The quantum era is coming. Are we ready to secure it?
By
Kent Walker
&
Hartmut Neven
Feb 06, 2026
Accessibility
Natively Adaptive Interfaces: A new framework for AI accessibility
By
Sam Sepah
Feb 05, 2026
.
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Jump to position 4
Jump to position 5
Jump to position 6