Breadcrumb
Technology
AI
How we’re bringing AI image verification to the Gemini app
Nov 20, 2025
·
2 min read
Share
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
We are increasing content transparency by introducing the ability to verify if an image was generated or edited by Google AI right in the Gemini app.
Pushmeet Kohli
VP, Science and Strategic Initiatives, Google DeepMind
Laurie Richardson
Vice President, Trust and Safety, Google
Share
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
At Google, we’ve long invested in ways to provide you with helpful context about information you see online. Now, as generative media becomes increasingly prevalent and high-fidelity, we are deploying tools to help you more easily determine whether the content you're interacting with was created or edited using AI.
Starting today, we’re making it easier for everyone to verify if an image was generated with or edited by Google AI right in the Gemini app, using SynthID, our digital watermarking technology that embeds imperceptible signals into AI-generated content.
We introduced
SynthID
in 2023. Since then, over 20 billion AI-generated pieces of content have been watermarked using SynthID, and we have been testing our
SynthID Detector
, a verification portal, with journalists and media professionals.
How it works
If you see an image and want to confirm it has been made by Google AI, upload it to the Gemini app and ask a question such as:
"Was this created with Google AI?"
or
“Is this AI-generated?”
Gemini will check for the SynthID watermark and use its own reasoning to return a response that gives you more context about the content you encounter online.
Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos, but don't worry, you can
download it
and watch it with your favorite video player!
What’s next
This launch builds on our history of providing context about images in
Google Search
and exploring new research innovations like
Backstory
from Google DeepMind. Looking ahead, we will continue to invest in more ways to empower you to determine the origin and history of content online. Soon, we’ll expand SynthID verification to support additional formats beyond images, such as video and audio, and bring these capabilities to more surfaces, such as Search.
In addition to our own tools, we are collaborating with industry partners to advance content transparency and authenticity standards across our product ecosystem — including YouTube, Search,
Pixel
and
Photos
— through our role on the steering committee of the
Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity (C2PA)
.
As part of this, rolling out this week, images generated by
Nano Banana Pro
(Gemini 3 Pro Image) in the
Gemini app
,
Vertex AI
and
Google Ads
will have C2PA metadata embedded, providing further transparency into how these images were created. We look forward to expanding this capability to more products and surfaces in the coming months.
Over time, we will also extend our verification approach to support
C2PA content credentials,
meaning you'll be able to check the original source of content created by models and products that exist outside of Google’s ecosystem.
This work is central to our commitment to bold and responsible AI. We look forward to further contributing to the future of AI transparency.
POSTED IN:
AI
Gemini App
Google DeepMind
Related stories
Learning & Education
Develop a deeper understanding with interactive images in Gemini.
By
Dave Messer
Nov 20, 2025
Gemini App
7 tips to get the most out of Nano Banana Pro
By
Bea Alessio
Nov 20, 2025
Developers
Build with Nano Banana Pro, our Gemini 3 Pro Image model
By
Alisa Fortin
&
Naina Raisinghani
AI
Introducing Nano Banana Pro
By
Naina Raisinghani
Nov 20, 2025
Google Cloud
How Westinghouse is reenergizing nuclear power with — and for — AI
By
Matt A.V. Chaban
Nov 20, 2025
Research
At our Research@ Poland event we shared how AI is helping us solve big challenges.
Nov 19, 2025
.
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Jump to position 4
Jump to position 5
Jump to position 6