Breadcrumb
Technology
Research
Nov 19, 2025
At our Research@ Poland event we shared how AI is helping us solve big challenges.
During a keynote at our Research@ event in Poland last week, Yossi Matias, Head of Google Research shared how his team’s work is guided by the "
magic cycle
" — where real-world challenges drive foundational research and scientific breakthroughs.
Our latest
Research@
event gathered hundreds of researchers, academics, policymakers and partners to explore how we continue this cycle, turning complex research into real-world solutions that serve people in their daily lives.
A clear theme emerged across every conversation: collaboration. From deploying
Google Earth AI
to help tackle
public health
and
disaster response
challenges,
creating new methods for brain mapping
and supporting responsible
AI literacy
and
education
, to developing AI that can act
as a virtual collaborator
for scientists — partnership has been key, and we’re excited to see what we can build together next.
VP and Head of Google Research, Yossi Matias, leads a discussion on AI Co-Scientist with Googler Vivek Natarajan and Dr. Tiago Dias da Costa from Imperial College London.
Ronit Levavi Morad explains the importance of AI literacy for future generations.
Luke Barrington shares how Google Earth AI uses geospatial AI models and datasets for critical global challenges.
Demo booths helped attendees connect with the real world impact Google Research is having across science, health, and education.
We were joined by Polish researchers, academics, policymakers and partners for this year’s flagship European Research@ event.
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Jump to position 4
Jump to position 5
POSTED IN:
Research
AI
Related stories
Google Search with Gemini 3: Our most intelligent search yet
Learn more about Gemini 3 and how it’s upgrading Google Search and AI Mode.
A new era of intelligence with Gemini 3
New ways to plan travel with AI in Search
WeatherNext 2: Our most advanced weather forecasting model