Breadcrumb
Technology
AI
The latest AI news we announced in November
Dec 05, 2025
·
7 min read
Read AI-generated summary
General summary
In November, Google announced several AI updates, including the release of Gemini 3 for improved learning and problem-solving. You can now access Gemini 3 in Google Search and the Gemini app. Also, Google is investing $40 billion in Texas for AI and cloud infrastructure.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Bullet points
This article recaps Google's AI news from November, highlighting advancements and new features across various platforms.
Gemini 3 launched, improving learning and planning, and is now in Google Search for smarter results.
Nano Banana Pro, built on Gemini 3, offers high-fidelity image generation and editing capabilities.
Google Maps and Android Auto get Gemini integration for hands-free, conversational experiences while driving.
Google is investing heavily in AI learning, education, and infrastructure, including $40 billion in Texas.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Explore other styles:
General summary
Bullet points
Share
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Here’s a recap of some of our biggest AI updates from November, including the launch of Gemini 3, debut of Nano Banana Pro and major new investments in AI infrastructure.
Keyword Team
Share
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos, but don't worry, you can
download it
and watch it with your favorite video player!
Your browser does not support the audio element.
Listen to article
This content is generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental
8:39 minutes
0:00
8:39
Voice
Gacrux
Speed
1X
Voice
Gacrux
Umbriel
Speed
0.75X
1X
1.5X
2X
For more than 20 years, we’ve invested in machine learning and AI research, tools and infrastructure to build products that make everyday life better for more people. Teams across Google are working on ways to unlock AI’s benefits in fields as wide-ranging as healthcare, crisis response and education. To keep you posted on our progress, we're doing a regular roundup of Google's most recent AI news.
Here’s a look back at some of our AI announcements from November.
November ushered in a new era of intelligence: with the launch of Gemini 3, we're improving everyone's ability to learn, plan or just get things done.
From "vibe coding" with our powerful models, to generating professional grade visuals with Nano Banana Pro, to the autonomous workflows in our new Google Antigravity platform, the distance between a spark of imagination and reality has never been shorter. So, whether you’re a developer building complex agents or a traveler planning for the upcoming holidays with Canvas in AI Mode, these updates turn AI into a proactive partner ready to help you get things done, all season long.
We released Gemini 3, AI for a new era of intelligence
. Gemini 3 is built to bring any idea to life. It represents the next step in our work to push the frontiers of intelligence, agentic experiences and personalization — so that AI is truly helpful for everyone. Gemini 3 is the best model in the world for multimodal understanding and it's our most powerful agentic and vibe coding model to date. For developers,
Gemini 3 Pro outperforms
previous versions across major AI benchmarks. Gemini 3’s
upgraded smarts and new capabilities
are now available in the
Gemini app
, and you can review our hub with all the
Gemini 3 announcements
.
We made Gemini 3 available in Google Search for our most intelligent search yet
. Gemini 3’s state-of-the-art reasoning is now available in Google Search, starting with AI Mode — marking the first time we brought a Gemini model to Search on day one. Gemini 3 grasps depth and nuance, and unlocks new experiences in Search with dynamic visual layouts, interactive tools and simulations tailored specifically for your query. Google AI Pro and Ultra subscribers in nearly 120 countries and territories in English can use Gemini 3 Pro by selecting “Thinking with 3 Pro” from the model drop-down menu in AI Mode.
We unveiled Nano Banana Pro, built on Gemini 3
. Nano Banana Pro, our newest image generation and editing model, is built on Gemini 3 and moves beyond spontaneous art into an era of high-fidelity, studio-quality visuals. You now have the choice between the original Nano Banana for fun, fast editing, or Pro for an
even more powerful creative partner
capable of handling complex tasks demanding the highest quality. To help get you started, we shared
seven tips to get the most out of Nano Banana Pro
.
We introduced Google Antigravity, a new agentic development platform
. Antigravity is a platform designed to give developers an AI-powered coding experience that goes beyond simple editing. It delivers a new agent-first interface for deploying agents that autonomously plan, execute and verify complex tasks. Our vision for Antigravity is to enable anyone with an idea to experience liftoff and build that idea into reality. You can try
Antigravity available
for yourself today in public preview.
We announced that Google Maps is getting smarter with Gemini
. With the help of Gemini, you will soon have the first, hands-free, conversational driving experience in Google Maps that allows you to find places, report traffic, ask for suggestions along your route and more using just your voice. Plus, new landmark-based navigation will give you clear directions, so in addition to hearing “turn right in 500 feet,” you’ll also get directions based on helpful landmarks like “turn right after the Thai Siam Restaurant.” Landmark-based navigation is rolling out now on Android and iOS in the U.S, and Gemini in navigation on Google Maps is rolling out
everywhere Gemini is available
.
We announced that Gemini has started rolling out in Android Auto
. Android Auto is already available in over 250 million cars on the road, and Gemini is now coming along for the ride to make life on the road even better. You’ll be able to use natural language to add stops, send messages, access emails, create playlists and even brainstorm ideas while driving. Just make sure you have the Gemini app on your phone and look for the tooltip on your car display.
We introduced SIMA 2, a significant step toward Artificial General Intelligence (AGI)
. SIMA 2 is a major milestone in our work to create general and helpful AI agents. By integrating the advanced capabilities of Gemini into SIMA 2, the model is evolving from an instruction-follower into an interactive gaming companion. Now, SIMA 2 can follow human-language instructions in virtual worlds and also think about its goals, converse with users and improve itself over time, marking an important step in the direction of robotics and AI-embodiment in general.
We released WeatherNext 2: our most advanced weather forecasting model
. WeatherNext 2 can generate forecasts 8x faster and with resolution up to 1-hour, and we’re already using this breakthrough technology to support weather agencies in making decisions.
We marked the 5-year anniversary of AlphaFold cracking the protein folding problem, and spotlighted its ongoing impact
. Five years ago AlphaFold 2 solved the protein structure prediction problem. The profound scientific and societal value of this work was recognized in 2024 with the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. In November, we looked back at how AlphaFold has unlocked new avenues of biological research and provided our first major proof point that AI can be a powerful tool to advance science.
We announced new ways to plan travel with AI in Search
. Our new AI features in Search help you build the perfect itinerary, from snagging a great deal to turning your plans into actual bookings. To get started with planning, try the Canvas tool in AI Mode: Describe the kind of trip you want and what recommendations you need. Then hit "Create Canvas," and watch your custom travel plan come together.
We added new AI shopping features in Search and Gemini to help with the holidays
. Our biggest upgrade to shopping means you can now use conversational AI and agentic AI to take the hard work out of your holiday shopping. Using AI Mode in Search to shop, you can now describe what you’re looking for and get an intelligently organized response that brings together rich visuals, price, reviews, inventory info, and more. Plus, new AI agents can now call stores to check stock and use agentic checkout to buy items automatically from eligible merchants when the price is right.
We announced new commitments to AI learning and education
. At our AI for Learning Forum in London, we announced $30 million in new funding for learning. The event brought together experts in education and technology and continued
our recent work
to develop AI in a way that improves learning outcomes. We also released popular new features to help with daily studying, including the ability to create flashcards and quizzes right
in the NotebookLM app
.
We shared essential tips for using Gemini Live
. Gemini Live’s latest updates allow you to have more natural, two-way conversations with AI. Our tips show how to make the most of these updates by tailoring your learning, especially for complex subjects. You can now adjust Gemini's speech speed to learn at your own pace and improve accessibility. You can also practice a new language, rehearse for a job interview or even liven your conversation up with a fun accent.
We announced a new $40 billion investment in Texas for AI and cloud infrastructure
. CEO of Google and Alphabet Sundar Pichai and Texas Governor Greg Abbott made the announcement at an event in Midlothian, TX. This latest announcement represented the capstone of our 2025 push to make AI investments that unlock economic opportunity, advance scientific breakthroughs and create opportunities that benefit everyone. It includes major
investments across America
, as well as
Europe
,
Africa
and the
Asia-Pacific
region — alongside a critical US workforce initiative to
train 100,000 electrical workers
and create 30,000 new apprentices.
POSTED IN:
AI
Gemini
Developers
Search
Google DeepMind
Maps
Android
Shopping
Learning & Education
Google Labs
Company announcements
Google in Europe
Google.org
Related stories
Gemini
15 examples of what Gemini 3 can do
By
Zahra Thompson
Dec 05, 2025
Developers
Google AI Pro and Ultra subscribers now have higher rate limits for Google Antigravity.
Dec 05, 2025
Developers
Gemini 3 Pro: the frontier of vision AI
By
Rohan Doshi
Dec 05, 2025
AI
New research from Google Workspace reveals how young leaders are using AI at work.
Dec 05, 2025
Search
Year in Search 2025: What and how we searched this year
By
Simon Rogers
Dec 04, 2025
Photos
Look back on your 2025 with Google Photos Recap
By
Tommy Meaney
.
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Jump to position 4
Jump to position 5
Jump to position 6