Breadcrumb
Technology
Research
Collection
Share
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Research@ 2025: Our latest breakthroughs
Oct 23, 2025 · 7 articles
23 Oct, 2025
articles 7
Oct 23, 2025
        7 articles
23 Oct, 2025
articles 7
Google Research’s mission is to drive foundational breakthroughs that advance the frontier of science and technology to benefit people and society. At our Research@ event in Mountain View, we shared our latest progress, guided by the "magic cycle" — where real-world challenges drive foundational research and scientific breakthroughs.
To fuel the next wave of the “magic cycle,” we’re also investing deeply in a world beyond the limitations of classical supercomputers: quantum computing. Quantum computing is key to solving problems that are utterly impossible today, pointing towards new discoveries in areas like drug design and clean energy.
We’re excited by the breakthroughs we’re seeing, and we’re just getting started. Take a look at what we shared as we bring research to reality.
Google Research: accelerating scientific breakthroughs
Vice President & Head of Google Research, Yossi Matias, shares an overview of big research projects currently underway.
Our Quantum Echoes algorithm
Our Willow quantum processor demonstrates the first-ever algorithm to achieve verifiable quantum advantage on hardware.
New updates and more access to Google Earth AI
Earth AI is helping enterprises and cities with everything from environmental monitoring to disaster response.
10 years of genomics research at Google
An overview of ten years of milestones and breakthroughs in Google’s work on genomics.
DeepSomatic, an open-source AI model, is speeding up genetic analysis
An overview of DeepSomatic, a new AI tool that helps identify complex genetic variants in cancer cells.
Our quantum hardware: the engine for verifiable quantum advantage
Michel Devorat and Yu Chen provide an overview of the quantum hardware that made the Quantum Echoes breakthrough possible.
Meet the 2025 Google PhD Fellows
Our program supports exceptional graduate students working on innovative research in computer science and related fields.