Breadcrumb
Innovation & AI
Technology
AI
The latest AI news we announced in April 2026
May 04, 2026
·
9 min read
Read AI-generated summary
General summary
Google’s April updates focused on the "agentic era," introducing the Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform, eighth-generation chips, and the powerful Gemma 4 open model. You can now access new tools like Google Vids for free video creation, Deep Research Max for data analysis, and a personalized coding tutor in Colab. Check out the new AI Agents Vibe Coding course on Kaggle to start building software today.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Bullet points
Check out "The latest AI news we announced in April" for Google's newest tech updates.
Google Cloud introduced powerful new tools and chips to help businesses build AI agents.
You can now create professional videos for free using the new Google Vids suite.
New coding tools like Learn Mode in Colab act as your personal programming tutor.
Google is using AI to improve healthcare access and help students with test prep.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Basic explainer
Google announced a bunch of new AI tools in April to help people work, study and create more easily. They launched features like a free video generator, a personal coding tutor and advanced research assistants. These updates aim to make AI more helpful for everything from school projects to professional business tasks. Google is also using this tech to improve healthcare and language translation for everyone.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Explore other styles:
General summary
Bullet points
Basic explainer
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Here’s a recap of our biggest AI updates from April, including Gemma 4, Deep Research Max and all the big announcements from Cloud Next ‘26.
T
The Keyword Team
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos, but don't worry, you can
download it
and watch it with your favorite video player!
Your browser does not support the audio element.
Listen to article
This content is generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental
10:55 minutes
0:00
10:55
Voice
Umbriel
Speed
1X
Voice
Umbriel
Gacrux
Speed
0.75X
1X
1.5X
2X
For more than 20 years, we’ve invested in machine learning and AI research, tools and infrastructure to build products that make everyday life better for more people. Teams across Google are working on ways to unlock AI’s benefits in fields as wide-ranging as healthcare, crisis response and education. To keep you posted on our progress, we're doing a regular roundup of Google's most recent AI news.
Here’s a look back at some of our AI announcements from April.
April 2026 was a huge month for AI at Google.
Cloud Next ‘26
was all about helping businesses make the most of agentic AI with new releases like the Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform and our eighth-generation TPUs — two specialized chips designed for the agentic era. We also released Gemma 4 (byte for byte the most capable open model), Deep Research Max for advanced data analysis and the new Learn Mode in Colab, which transforms Gemini into your personal coding tutor. These new tools and features can help with everything from stronger and more energy efficient enterprises to helping students reach their full potential.
See the big announcements from Cloud Next ‘26
. Agentic technology is revolutionizing how people and organizations work. At Cloud Next ‘26, more than 32,000 attendees saw us make over
260 announcements
to help businesses grow in this new, agentic era.
Sundar Pichai shared progress for the agentic Gemini era
. Google Cloud has incredible momentum, with nearly 75% of Cloud customers already using Google Cloud AI, and 330 organizations processing over a trillion tokens each in just the past year. Here, Google CEO Sundar Pichai shared the investments and innovation behind it all.
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform lets organizations build and manage their AI agents
. This platform allows organizations to build and govern autonomous agents for agentic workflows where AI can manage complex, multi-step business processes.
Google Cloud and Wiz are redefining security for the AI era
. We shared how we help organizations adapt and thrive as they harness the potential of AI while defending against new threats.
Our latest TPUs are built to power supercomputing with more efficiency
. Powering the agentic era, our eighth-generation TPUs are designed specifically for the massive compute demands of agentic AI while maintaining a focus on energy efficiency in our data centers. By customizing and co-designing silicon with hardware, we can deliver dramatically more power efficiency and absolute performance.
Google Vids now lets everyone generate videos at no cost
. Anyone with a Google account can now generate up to 10 videos a month with our easy-to-use AI-powered video editing suite Google Vids at no cost. It’s a game-changer for anyone from students to small business owners, who can now produce professional-quality video content — without a big budget.
00:00
For example, you can give your videos a custom soundtrack tailored perfectly to your video’s vibe, powered by our Lyria 3 and Lyria 3 Pro models.
Deep Research Max can conduct high-level research tasks for you
. This represents a step-change for autonomous agents. Deep Research Max is designed to handle high-level research tasks independently, significantly reducing the "grunt work" involved in deep-dive data synthesis.
Flow Sessions artists shared creative tips for bringing personal stories to life
. From embracing unexpected surprises to leaning deeply into personal storytelling, artists from diverse disciplines shared tips for how to use Flow to create compelling videos.
Gemma 4 brings you byte for byte the most capable open model
. Built for advanced reasoning and agentic workflows, Gemma 4 delivers an unprecedented level of intelligence-per-parameter. It builds on incredible community momentum: Since the launch of our first generation, developers have downloaded Gemma over 500 million times.
Google Colab now has Learn Mode, your personal coding tutor
. This feature explains the “why” and the “how” through step-by-step guidance rather than just writing code for you. Powered by Custom Instructions, your notebook saves your tailored AI preferences directly, so your personalized tutor travels with it whenever you share your work.
Google AI Studio lets you vibe code with your Google AI subscription
. Google AI Pro and Ultra subscribers now get increased usage limits in Google AI Studio. Plus, we launched a new
AI Agents Vibe Coding Course from Google and Kaggle
. Registration is now open for the June 2026 course that teaches people how to use AI agents to build software without getting bogged down in syntax.
Gemini makes test prep accessible to more students around the world
. The latest example is support for the TOEIC, an English exam considered particularly important in Korea. With Gemini, you can now prepare for the TOEIC exam with reading comprehension quizzes that include personalized feedback.
Google Translate marks 20 years of breaking language barriers
. From its beginning as an AI experiment in 2006 to the 1 billion users who now translate around 1 trillion words every single month, Translate has come a long way in two decades. To celebrate Translate’s 20th anniversary, we shared some fun facts and things to try, including the launch of one of our most requested features: a new “pronunciation practice” tool on Android.
Some of the most commonly translated phrases are about gratitude, connection and love. In April, and like many months over 20 years, the most commonly translated phrase on Google Translate was: “Thank you.”
Google.org and Johnson & Johnson Foundation launch a rural healthcare initiative
. With a $10 million commitment, Google.org and the Johnson & Johnson Foundation will bring AI training to rural U.S. healthcare workers to ensure vital medical breakthroughs aren't just limited to big-city hospitals.
Fitbit's personal health coach is now even more personalized
. The update makes the health coach even more intuitive, using Gemini to analyze biometrics and provide tailored advice that feels human.
Get more stories from Google in your inbox.
Get more
stories from Google
in your inbox.
Email address
Your information will be used in accordance with
Google's privacy policy.
Subscribe
Done. Just one step more.
Check your inbox to confirm your subscription.
You are already subscribed to our newsletter.
You can also subscribe with a
different email address
.
POSTED IN:
AI
Google Cloud
Google Workspace
Gemini models
Google Labs
Developer tools
Google.org
Fitbit
Translate
Related stories
Developer tools
Reduce friction and latency for long-running jobs with Webhooks in Gemini API
By
Lucia Loher
&
Hussein Hassan Harrirou
May 04, 2026
Translate
Celebrating 20 years of Google Translate: Fun facts, tips and new features to try
By
Rose Yao
Apr 28, 2026
Developer tools
Join the new AI Agents Vibe Coding Course from Google and Kaggle
By
Anant Nawalgaria
&
Frank Guan
Apr 27, 2026
Gemini
8 Gemini tips for organizing your space (and life)
By
Ivy Levine
Apr 24, 2026
Google Cloud
7 highlights from Google Cloud Next ‘26
By
Chris Talbott
Apr 24, 2026
Fitbit
Fitbit's personal health coach is now even more personalized.
Apr 23, 2026
.
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Jump to position 4
Jump to position 5
Jump to position 6