Breadcrumb
Technology
Google DeepMind
Accelerating discovery with the AI for Math Initiative
Oct 29, 2025
·
2 min read
Read AI-generated summary
General summary
Google DeepMind and Google are launching the AI for Math Initiative to explore how AI can accelerate mathematical research. Five prestigious research institutions will partner with Google DeepMind. They will identify mathematical problems for AI-driven insights and build tools to power advances using Google DeepMind's technologies.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Bullet points
"AI for Math Initiative" uses AI to help mathematicians make discoveries faster.
Google DeepMind and Google are supporting the initiative with funding and AI tech.
Five top research institutions will explore how AI can solve tough math problems.
AI systems like Gemini Deep Think and AlphaEvolve are already showing promise.
AI and math experts working together could lead to big breakthroughs in science.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Basic explainer
Google wants to use computers to help smart people solve really hard math problems. They're giving money and tools to universities so they can work together. The computers can find new ways to do math and solve problems faster. Google hopes this will help everyone learn new things about the world.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Explore other styles:
General summary
Bullet points
Basic explainer
Share
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
The initiative brings together some of the world's most prestigious research institutions to pioneer the use of AI in mathematical research.
Pushmeet Kohli
VP, Science and Strategic Initiatives, Google DeepMind
Eugénie Rives
Senior Director, GenAI Strategy, Google DeepMind
Share
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Mathematics is the foundational language of the universe, providing the tools to describe everything from the laws of physics to the intricacies of biology and the logic of computer science. For centuries, its frontiers have been expanded by human ingenuity alone. At Google DeepMind, we believe AI can serve as a powerful tool to collaborate with mathematicians, augmenting creativity and accelerating discovery.
Today, we’re introducing the AI for Math Initiative, supported by Google DeepMind and
Google.org
. It brings together five of the world's most prestigious research institutions to pioneer the use of AI in mathematical research.
The inaugural partner institutions are:
Imperial College London
Institute for Advanced Study
Institut des Hautes Études Scientifiques (IHES)
Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing (UC Berkeley)
Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR)
The initiative’s partners will work towards the shared goals of identifying the next generation of mathematical problems ripe for AI-driven insights, building the infrastructure and tools to power these advances and, ultimately, accelerating the pace of discovery.
Google’s support includes funding from Google.org and access to Google DeepMind’s state-of-the-art technologies, such as an enhanced reasoning mode called
Gemini Deep Think
, our agent for algorithm discovery,
AlphaEvolve
, and our formal proof completion system,
AlphaProof
. The initiative will create a powerful feedback loop between fundamental research and applied AI, opening the door to deeper partnerships.
A pivotal moment for AI and mathematics
The AI for Math Initiative comes at a time of remarkable progress in AI’s reasoning capabilities; our own work has seen rapid advancement in recent months.
In 2024, our AlphaGeometry and AlphaProof systems
achieved a silver-medal standard
at the International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO). More recently, our latest Gemini model, equipped with Deep Think, achieved a
gold-medal level performance
at this year’s IMO, perfectly solving five of the six problems and scoring 35 points.
And we’ve seen further progress with another of our methods,
AlphaEvolve
, which was applied to over 50 open problems in mathematical analysis, geometry, combinatorics and number theory and improved the previously best known solutions in 20% of them. In
mathematics and algorithm discovery
, it has invented a new, more efficient method for matrix multiplication — a core calculation in computing. For the specific problem of multiplying 4x4 matrices, AlphaEvolve discovered an algorithm using just 48 scalar multiplications, breaking the 50-year-old record set by Strassen’s algorithm in 1969. In
computer science
, it helped researchers discover new mathematical structures that show certain complex problems are even harder for computers to solve than we previously knew. This gives us a clearer and more precise understanding of computational limits, which will help guide future research.
This rapid progress is a testament to the fast-evolving capabilities of AI models. We hope this new initiative can explore how AI can accelerate discovery in mathematical research, and tackle harder problems.
We are only at the beginning of understanding everything AI can do, and how it can help us think about the deepest questions in science. By combining the profound intuition of world-leading mathematicians with the novel capabilities of AI, we believe new pathways of research can be opened, advancing human knowledge and moving toward new breakthroughs across the scientific disciplines.
POSTED IN:
Google DeepMind
Google.org
Related stories
Company announcements
Google is investing in Oklahoma’s workforce and talent pipeline.
Nov 07, 2025
Arts & Culture
Listen to the Brazilian rainforests and help contribute to AI research
By
Marconi Campos
Nov 05, 2025
Google.org
Google is helping girls “scout” a path to digital wellbeing.
Nov 04, 2025
AI
The latest AI news we announced in October
By
Keyword Team
Nov 04, 2025
Google.org
Announcing the 2025 Google PhD Fellows
By
Leslie Yeh
Oct 23, 2025
Google.org
Congratulations to the 2025 Google Academic Research Award recipients
By
Rebecca Hardy
Oct 16, 2025
.
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Jump to position 4
Jump to position 5
Jump to position 6