Breadcrumb
Innovation & AI
Products
The latest AI news we announced in February
6 min read
Read AI-generated summary
General summary
Google made several AI announcements in February to show how AI can solve real-world problems. They launched partnerships and investments at the AI Impact Summit in India. New AI tools and upgrades include Nano Banana 2, Lyria 3, Gemini 3.1 Pro and Deep Think, and an AI video analysis tool for Team USA.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Bullet points
This article, "The latest AI news we announced in February," highlights Google's AI advancements and global impact.
Google showcased AI solving real-world problems at the AI Impact Summit in India with new partnerships.
Nano Banana 2 combines Pro image quality with Flash speed, improving image generation in Gemini and Search.
Gemini 3.1 Pro got a major upgrade, helping users tackle complex tasks and problems across platforms.
Google Cloud helped Team USA analyze tricks with AI video analysis, improving athlete performance.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Explore other styles:
General summary
Bullet points
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Here’s a recap of our biggest AI updates from February, including highlights from the AI Impact Summit in India, the release of Gemini 3.1 Pro and Nano Banana 2.
Keyword Team
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Sorry, your browser doesn't support embedded videos, but don't worry, you can
download it
and watch it with your favorite video player!
Your browser does not support the audio element.
Listen to article
This content is generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental
6:23 minutes
0:00
6:23
Voice
Umbriel
Speed
1X
Voice
Umbriel
Gacrux
Speed
0.75X
1X
1.5X
2X
For more than 20 years, we’ve invested in machine learning and AI research, tools and infrastructure to build products that make everyday life better for more people. Teams across Google are working on ways to unlock AI’s benefits in fields as wide-ranging as healthcare, crisis response and education. To keep you posted on our progress, we're doing a regular roundup of Google's most recent AI news.
Here’s a look back at some of our AI announcements from February.
For us, February was about global impact. At the
AI Impact Summit in India
, we demonstrated how our ongoing breakthroughs in AI are now solving real-world challenges for people everywhere — and we launched new partnerships and investments to make sure everyone benefits. We see AI as an enabling technology that can help people achieve their goals — whether you're a researcher, entrepreneur or Olympic athlete. On the slopes, in a research lab, or right in
the palm of your hand
, Google's latest AI announcements are here to help
you
.
We announced new partnerships and investments at the AI Impact Summit
. As world leaders gathered in New Delhi, India, we shared how we’re
partnering to make AI work for everyone
. That includes new Impact Challenges to help
advance science
and spark
innovation for governments
, as well as
new national partnerships in India
for AI and collaborations to accelerate scalable AI solutions in science and education.
CEO Sundar Pichai delivered opening remarks at the AI Impact Summit
. Sundar explained why “no technology has [him] dreaming bigger than AI” and called on leaders to pursue AI boldly, approach it responsibly, and work through this moment in AI’s development together. He shared ways that Google is ensuring everyone benefits with
major infrastructure investments
and
new AI skills training
.
We released Nano Banana 2, combining Pro image capabilities with Flash image speed
. That means you can now access high-quality image generation with faster results across products like the Gemini app and Google Search. We’re also continuing to improve tools like SynthID to help you identify AI-generated content.
Developers can now build with Nano Banana 2
and deploy sophisticated visual creation at scale with an amazing price-performance ratio.
We released our most advanced music generation tools
. Lyria 3 allows you to create custom music in the Gemini app. That means you can describe an idea or upload a photo or video, and Gemini will generate a 30-second track with custom cover art. On top of sharing that news, we also
shared six tips
to get you started prompting Lyria 3. And as an added creative tool, we also announced that
ProducerAI is joining Google Labs
. Whether you’re refining lyrics or a melody, ProducerAI is a music creation partner that can help turn your imagination into dynamic, comprehensive songs.
We shared new ways to create images and videos in Flow
. To help you generate, edit and animate images and videos in a single workspace, we’re bringing our top AI capabilities into Flow. You can create high-fidelity images and instantly use them as building blocks for video generation, all in one place. With an updated interface, it’s now even easier to search, filter and manage your assets.
We released Gemini 3.1 Pro to help tackle your most complex tasks
. Gemini 3.1 Pro is a smarter, more capable baseline model for complex problem-solving, demonstrating more than double the reasoning performance of 3 Pro. It’s designed to help you when a simple answer isn’t enough, whether you’re looking for a clear, visual explanation of a topic, synthesizing data into a single view or pulling together a creative project. Gemini 3.1 Pro is available to developers, enterprises and consumers via various platforms.
We released a major upgrade to Gemini 3 Deep Think
. We collaborated with world-class
scientists and researchers
to improve Gemini 3 Deep Think. Designed specifically for the complexities of science and engineering, the updated Gemini 3 Deep Think excels where data is messy and solutions aren't black-and-white. It moves beyond abstract theory to deliver practical, actionable results for technical challenges. The new Deep Think is now available in the Gemini app for Google AI Ultra subscribers. Researchers, engineers and enterprises can
express interest
in early access to test Deep Think via the Gemini API.
We shared our view on what’s required to achieve digital resilience in the AI era at MSC
. New technologies mean new frontiers for strategic competition. We’re already seeing how threats are evolving, and how old ways of responding are failing to meet the moment. That’s why at the 62nd Munich Security Conference, Google President of Global Affairs Kent Walker called for a collaborative approach to security and outlined how partners could work together to build resilience without sacrificing control over their data.
We shared how Google Cloud helped Team USA find their edge with AI
. Ahead of the Olympic Winter Games, Google Cloud and Google DeepMind built an AI video analysis tool to help Team USA and U.S. Ski & Snowboard elite athletes analyze their tricks. Using Google DeepMind’s research into spatial intelligence, the platform maps an athlete’s motion directly from 2D video images — even through bulky winter gear. The tool, which runs on Google Cloud, processes this data in minutes, providing near real-time feedback that athletes and coaches could use to make adjustments and help elevate performance.
We shared our new Gemini ad for football’s biggest weekend
. In our national in-game spot, "New Home," a mother and son use Gemini to bring their new house to life, imagining how different spaces will look and feel. The spot, named by the Kellogg School
as the best in-game ad
in its annual ranking, played during the big game and highlighted just a few of the amazing things people can do — and are doing — with Gemini.
POSTED IN:
AI
Pixel
Google.org
Google DeepMind
A message from our CEO
Google Cloud
Grow with Google
Developer tools
Gemini
Gemini App
Gemini models
Google Labs
Google Research
Safety & Security
Related stories
Developer tools
Play AI-based games in our I/O Save the date
By
Ari Marini
Mar 06, 2026
Ask a Techspert
Ask a Techspert: How does AI understand my visual searches?
By
Molly McHugh-Johnson
Mar 05, 2026
Pixel
Unbox the sleek, durable new Pixel 10a with us.
Mar 05, 2026
Search
Use Canvas in AI Mode to get things done and bring your ideas to life, right in Search.
Mar 04, 2026
NotebookLM
Generate your own Cinematic Video Overviews in NotebookLM.
By
Pete Aykroyd
Mar 04, 2026
Pixel
March Pixel Drop: New personalization and AI tools
By
Michal Levin
Mar 03, 2026
.
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Jump to position 4
Jump to position 5
Jump to position 6