Breadcrumb
Innovation & AI
Models & research
Google Labs
Build dynamic agentic workflows in Opal
Feb 24, 2026
·
5 min read
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
We’re introducing a new agent step in Opal that turns static workflows into interactive experiences. The agent step understands your objective and figures out the right tools and models it needs to get there.
D
Dimitri Glazkov
Principal Software Engineer, Google Labs
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Today we’re upgrading
Opal
workflows from static model calls to agentic intelligence. Instead of manually picking a model, you can now select an agent in the "generate" step. This agent step proactively determines the best path based on your goal, triggering the right tools and models (like Web Search for research or Veo for Video) to automate complex tasks with less manual configuration.
Previously, creating a
storybook Opal
required you to predefine page counts and user questions. Now, we can create a
Visual Storyteller Opal
where the agent step autonomously decides which details it needs and suggests plot points to help you direct where the story goes. This marks a shift from rigid formats to dynamic, unique narratives shaped by real-time creative decisions.
From static to interactive experiences
Let’s take an interior design Opal as an example. Before the agent step, an
Interior Design Opal
felt like a simple one-way process: upload a picture, input your style, and receive an image of your redesigned space. With the new agent step, your leveled up
Room Styler Opal
starts to feel interactive and more like another design partner you're collaborating with.
Upload a photo of your empty living room and describe your mid-century modern vision. The agent will generate an initial concept featuring era-specific decor and palettes. If it’s not quite right, you can provide feedback on specific elements. By iterating through this dialogue, the agent refines its grasp of your aesthetic and can even research niche design sub-styles to create redesigned images that feel uniquely yours, rather than a generic showroom template.
Opal can now create these interactive experiences because the agent understands your goal, thinks about the best way to get it done, reaches out to you when it needs your input and recruits the best models and tools to get the job done.
New tools to make your Opal agent more capable
Memory:
Whether it's a user’s name, your style preferences or a running shopping list, your Opals can now remember information across sessions. This makes your Opals grow smarter and feel more personal the more you use them. In this
Video Hooks Brainstormer Opal
, the agent step stores the user's brand identity and preferences to its memory, allowing you to generate tailored video ideas instantly without repeating your preferences.
Dynamic routing:
Take full command of your workflow by defining multiple paths an agent can follow based on custom logic. Simply describe your criteria, and the agent will intelligently transition to the correct step once those conditions are met. In the
Executive Briefing Opal
the agent step tailors your briefing based on whether you’re meeting with an existing or new client. It searches the web for new client backgrounds or reviews internal meeting notes to provide relevant context.
Interactive chat:
Sometimes an AI agent needs to ask a follow-up question. The agent step can now initiate a chat with the user to gather missing information, or offer choices before moving to the next stage of the plan. Let's use the
Room Styler Opal
as an example. If a user didn’t give enough detail at first, the Opal will keep asking questions or showing examples.
More ways to build in Opal
We believe this approach gives you the best of both worlds: the power of an AI agent working towards your goal and the control of a step-by-step workflow you can customize and refine at any time.
We’ve kept Opal simple while making it significantly more capable. New users will find that Opals "just work" because the agent in the generate step is smart enough to self-correct, remember and optimize. For our power users and builders, the standard fixed steps are available whenever you need high-precision prototyping or rigid logic. By bridging the gap between automation and control, we’re expanding the horizons of what you can build. We can’t wait to see your new agent-powered Opals in action!
POSTED IN:
Google Labs
Developer tools
Related stories
Google Labs
ProducerAI: Your music creation partner, now in Google Labs
By
Elias Roman
Feb 24, 2026
Google Labs
Create studio-quality marketing assets with Photoshoot in Pomelli
By
Daniel Adonai
Feb 19, 2026
Developer tools
Save the date! Google I/O 2026 is May 19-20.
Feb 17, 2026
AI
The latest AI news we announced in January
By
Keyword Team
Feb 04, 2026
Developer tools
Introducing Agentic Vision in Gemini 3 Flash
By
Rohan Doshi
Jan 27, 2026
Developer tools
New developer tools for Google AI Pro and Ultra subscribers
By
Niv Govindaraju
&
Bala Muthukrishnan
Jan 27, 2026
.
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Jump to position 4
Jump to position 5
Jump to position 6