Breadcrumb
Company News
Outreach & Initiatives
Google.org
We’re announcing the 12 recipients of our AI for Science fund
Jan 26, 2026
·
3 min read
Read AI-generated summary
Bullet points
Google.org's "AI for Science" fund supports 12 organizations using AI to solve complex scientific problems.
These teams use AI to tackle obstacles in health, agriculture, and biodiversity, creating real-world solutions.
Projects include decoding genomes, predicting drug resistance, and reducing livestock methane emissions.
The fund promotes open science, with recipients expected to share data and solutions widely.
Google.org aims to accelerate scientific discovery by equipping researchers with AI resources.
Summaries were generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental.
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
The awardees are using AI to tackle some of the world’s most complex scientific challenges
Maggie Johnson
VP and Global Head of Google.org
Share
x.com
Facebook
LinkedIn
Mail
Copy link
Science is the cornerstone of human progress. Yet, while the world’s problems are becoming increasingly complex, the pace of new discovery is actually
slowing
. To help overcome this, Google.org created a
$20 million AI for Science fund
to support academic, nonprofit and startup organizations using AI to tackle the world’s most complex scientific challenges. We're equipping researchers with the right resources to use AI to unlock the impossible and achieve in years what used to take decades.
Today, we’re announcing the twelve recipients of the AI for Science fund. These teams aren't just using AI to synthesize and process data; they are using it to break through the most significant obstacles across scientific domains like health, agriculture and biodiversity to turn discoveries into real-world solutions. Each of these organizations shares our commitment to open science. We expect their work to lead to open source datasets and solutions that can power breakthroughs far beyond their own applications.
Decoding the science of life and health
The sheer complexity of biological data has long been a barrier to medical progress. Five of our funding recipients are using AI to translate this complexity into a predictive, more precise science, moving us from reacting to disease to preventing it.
UW Medicine
is using its breakthrough
Fiber-seq
technology to build long-read maps of the 99% of the human genome that remains a mystery, aiming to unlock the genetic roots of rare diseases.
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
is developing
BAN-map
, an AI-guided tool that analyzes neural data and adjusts experimental conditions in real time to maximize discovery within tight experimental windows and decode the neural mechanisms of thought and memory.
Technical University of Munich
is building a multiscale foundation model that bridges the gap between individual cells and whole organs, allowing clinicians to simulate disease progression and test treatments digitally.
The
Infectious Disease Institute at
Makerere University
is leveraging AI tools, including the "EVE" framework and AlphaFold, to predict how malaria-causing parasites evolve, helping researchers identify drug resistance faster.
Spore.Bio
, based in France, is revolutionizing microbiology and biophotonics with the development of an AI-powered scanner that could cut the time it takes to detect life-threatening, drug-resistant bacteria from days to under an hour.
Revolutionizing global food systems
A growing global population and a changing climate are placing unprecedented pressure on our food systems, from plants to livestock. These selected organizations are using AI to ensure that what we grow is more resilient, more nutritious and more sustainable.
The
Sainsbury Laboratory
is launching "Bifrost," which uses AlphaFold3 to predict how plant immune receptors interact with pathogens based solely on genome sequences, accelerating the breeding of disease-resistant crops.
The
Periodic Table of Food Initiative (PTFI)
is building an AI-powered platform to map the “dark matter” of food — thousands of unknown molecules that define nutritional quality and flavor — to help design and enable healthier diets.
The
Innovative Genomics Institute at UC Berkeley
is decoding the microbiomes of cows, using AI to identify the specific interactions that can be edited to significantly reduce livestock methane emissions.
Protecting biodiversity and planetary resilience
Human activity is eroding the natural world faster than traditional science can document and understand it. These organizations are using AI to map, model and protect natural resources and drive breakthroughs in advanced clean energy and carbon capture. Together, they are building tools to safeguard the systems that sustain all life on Earth.
The Rockefeller University
is overhauling the genome sequencing pipeline with AI to automate data curation, accelerating the production of high-quality genomic blueprints for the planet’s 1.8 million species to aid in conservation and medicine.
UNEP-WCMC
is filling critical “data deserts” by using LLMs to scan millions of scientific records, creating a definitive distribution map of all 350,000 known plant species to guide global conservation decisions.
The Swiss Plasma Center at École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL)
is standardizing global fusion energy data and experiments, enabling AI models to learn from collective experiments and accelerate towards a reliable, carbon-free future.
The University of Liverpool
is reinventing the scientific approach with a "Hive Mind" method that connects autonomous laboratory robots with human scientists and AI agents to discover new materials for global-scale carbon capture.
Looking ahead
Whether it is curing a rare disease, protecting a staple crop or saving a species from extinction, these organizations are proving how powerful AI applications can accelerate the pace of innovation for everyone. We’re excited to continue supporting these organizations and discovering others that are driving breakthrough science. Google.org remains committed to accelerating the next frontier of scientific discovery–
learn more
about upcoming opportunities to join us in our mission to solve critical global challenges.
POSTED IN:
Google.org
Google Research
Google DeepMind
Related stories
AI
In our latest podcast, hear how the “Smokejumpers” team brings Gemini to billions of people.
Jan 27, 2026
Google DeepMind
How animators and AI researchers made ‘Dear Upstairs Neighbors’
By
Cassidy Curtis
&
Sarah Rumbley
Jan 26, 2026
Google.org
Building a community-led future for AI in film with Sundance Institute
By
Mira Lane
Jan 20, 2026
AI Products
The latest AI news we announced in December
By
Keyword Team
Dec 29, 2025
AI Products
Google's year in review: 8 areas with research breakthroughs in 2025
By
Jeff Dean
&
Demis Hassabis
&
James Manyika
Dec 23, 2025
AI Products
Watch a podcast discussion about Gemini 3 and the future of Search.
Dec 18, 2025
.
Jump to position 1
Jump to position 2
Jump to position 3
Jump to position 4
Jump to position 5
Jump to position 6